---
toc: true
comments: false
layout: post
title: Data Abstraction notes
description: Data abstraction notes
type: hacks
courses: { compsci: {week: 7} }
---
## Variables

- An abstraction inside a program that can hold a value.
- Think of them as containers or boxes for data.
- They help manage and organize data in your code, making it more organized, readable, and adaptable.

### Different Data Types for Variables

- Integer: Used for numbers used in mathematical operations (e.g., age or temperature).
- Text (String): Used for text, lists, and words (e.g., name, phone number, or address).
- Boolean: Used for representing true or false values (e.g., "Is it raining?").

### Correct Way to Name Variables

- Should be short, descriptive, and easy to distinguish.
- Must start with a letter or underscore (not a number).
- Can only have alphanumeric characters or underscores.
- Are case sensitive.
- Cannot be Python keywords (e.g., 'else').

### Hacks

**Storing if someone's pet is a dog:**

- Variable Name: `isDog`
- Data Type: Boolean

**Storing someone's birthday:**

- Variable Name: `birthday`
- Data Type: Text (String)

**Storing the amount of money someone is spending:**

- Variable Name: `amountSpent`
- Data Type: Float (for decimal values)

**Storing if it is sunny:**

- Variable Name: `isSunny`
- Data Type: Boolean


## Primitive vs. Collection Data Types

### Primitive Data Types

- int
- string
- float
- boolean

### Collection Data Types

- list
- dictionary

## Concatenation

- Concatenation is the joining of strings and other types.
- Example: `myFirstName + " " + myLastName`

## Formatting

- Allows you to display values using predefined rules.
- Example: `message = "My first name is {0} and my last name is {1}"`

